>> Kyle Simpson: It is often
gonna be the case that you have
several different operations that you
need to do multiple, multiple times.
And that's where we get loops.
Loops are the way that we repeat
something over and over and over again.
So here, let's say that I had
an array called students.
All I've done there on line one is just
leave out what values that I might have
put in it.
And by the way, if you haven't seen
that syntax with the little /* and
*/ thing, that's just a comment.
That's why it's grayed out.
That's just a little inline comment.
And all I'm signaling to you is there's
a bunch of values there that I didn't
have space on the slides to type in, but
they could have been numbers,
strings, who knows?
Okay, so that's an array that
has some set of values in it.
And what we wanna do is say hi to them.
So let's say that all of the values in
this array might have been the strings
that were all of your student names like
Matt and Sarah, and all the rest of them,
they all would have been listed
in their individually okay.
So if we were to say for,
which is what we're doing on line three,
we're basically indicating, hey, I'm
gonna repeat something a bunch of times.
And there's two different ways
of doing a repetition with
the four loop that we're seeing here,
one on line three, one on line seven.
So we'll take each one of them split and
focus on them.
The line three block of code, line three,
four, and five that is saying
I want to do something where I'm
gonna count how many times I do it.
So we do let i, let is just another way
of creating a variable similar to var,
but it makes it smaller block of our code.
In this case, only inside of that
curly brace paragraph if you will.
But it's the same kind of
concept as making an i, and
we're initially gonna start it at 0.
And then notice on the very far
right-hand side, we've got an i++.
That i++ says, remember,
that we wanna update it by one,
we wanna increment it by one each time.
And how do we know when to stop the loop,
because we don't wanna
let the loop run forever.
How do we know when to stop the loop?
It's the stuff in the middle.
You'll notice that there's a clause and
these are separated by,
see the semicolons.
They're separated by semicolons,
the thing in the middle is
what we call a test clause.
And it's identical in its behavior
to what we put in an if statement.
So it's yet
another way of making a decision.
Here the decision is, should I keep
the loop going or should I stop it?
And we're gonna re-evaluate,
we're gonna relook at that expression
every single time we do a loop.
So we're gonna just keep repeating and
repeating.
That's kinda like if your kid
was jumping jump rope, and
they're just gonna keep jumping,
and jumping, and jumping.
And at some point,
they're gonna get tired or whatever.
I mean, I can do four or
five jump rope cycles before I get tired.
But they're gonna keep going and
keep doing, until they get tired, and
then they're gonna stop.
And it's the same thing here,
we're gonna loop, and loop,
and loop until we have decided
that it's time to stop.
How do we decide, here?
Well, it's if our little
counter that started at 0,
if it has gone through
all of the students.
We've looked at students.length and maybe
that was 15 cuz there's 15 of you here.
Well, it's going to go through
all of those students and
then when it's done then
it says stop the loop.
And for each time that we do the loop,
we're gonna call this function
greetStudent just to say hi.
So hi, Matt, hi, Sarah.
We're gonna do each one one at a time.
And the way we get out those values
from the array to tell it who to greet
is that students with
the square brackets of i.
That looks exactly like when we
did square brackets of one, but
now we're telling it specifically which
position to get based upon that little i
variable that's going to be counting
from 0 up to, in this case, 14.
If we went from 0 to 14,
that is 15 items or
15 iterations,
15 times that we've done the loop.
Now, line seven is a slightly
different kind of loop.
It's a for loop that is going
to go over a list of values.
So you notice I have this let student.
That's gonna get assigned
automatically by this for
of loop, it's gonna get assigned
each value out of the array.
So I don't need to go
access it by a position.
It's just gonna automatically tell me give
me all of the values that are in this
students array.
There's a very technical term for this.
This is called an iterator that it's going
through a value source like an array and
just getting all of those values out.
But these are two very common
loop forms that you'll find
when you're seeing JavaScript programming.
They're not the only kind of loops though.
There are while loops, for example.
A while loop is similar to the for loop,
except you'll notice that we don't set
anything up like an initial value.
And we don't increment anything.
We just have a single clause there,
a single expression,
(students.length > 0) And it's just
evaluating either the true or false.
And the while loop says keep going
while it evaluates the true.
So if they were a thousand of you in this
room, this would be a really crowded room.
But if there were a thousand
of you in this room,
we'd just keep going a thousand times.
From 0 up to 999.
Well, actually, we're not counting
anymore, since there's not a for loop.
What you'll notice here is that we're
checking to make sure that students.length
still has items in it.
That's why we're saying greater than 0.
So what's happening here
is actually kinda sneaky.
On line four, we are actually removing
students from the list of students array.
We're pulling them out of this list.
That's what the .pop is doing.
And that's a method that we can do on
arrays that just takes a value out and
then it's no longer in the array anymore.
So we're saying give me one value out of
the array, and then greet that student.
So hi, Matt, and then give me another
value out of the array, hi, Susan,
hi, Sarah.
We just grab each one of these
values out of the array.
And by removing the element from
the array, we've made it smaller and
smaller and smaller.
At some point,
it's not gonna have any more students.
And its length is gonna be 0.
And then (students.length > 0)
that's gonna give us false.
And that's when the while loop says,
okay, it's time to stop.
So that's a general, very brief
overview of how you loop things,
how you repeat things like process
through a list of students.
All right, let's try out a loop and
see how this works.
We've got a list of students here.
And we've got a while loop that's going
to loop over them and print them out.
I switched it around a little bit just so
that we can run it on environment.
When I click run here, you'll notice that
we've printed Susan, Sarah, and Matt.
That went in reverse order because
pop is taking from the end.
But there's a different method that
we could've called on the array, and
it's shift,
which will take it off the front.
So when I run it again,
now we're gonna see, Hello, Matt!, Hello,
Sarah!, and Hello, Susan!.